(whooshing)
Let's get uploading images.
So for uploading images in this course,
we're gonna be using something called Cloudinary.
Cloudinary is a service
with a very generous free tier.
The really cool thing about Cloudinary
is that they'll resize things based on width
and height and they'll change it from a PNG
to a WebP if they need to
and the quality can be dumbed down
if you want it to be smaller.
And all of your image problems
can be solved with Cloudinary.
And you can also use it with the new image tag
inside of Next.js, which is pretty, pretty cool.
So you could use Cloudinary direct on your website
or you could just use Cloudinary for uploading images
and then use the Next image tag to actually display them.
So we'll get into that.
But what I want you to do
is to sign up for a Cloudinary account,
if you haven't already and then go into your dashboard.
It's going to show you right here your cloud name,
your API key and your secret.
We're gonna need those in just a second.
Please generate your own.
I just logged into my tutorial account
and I saw that 5,482 people
or maybe less than that have been uploading random images
to my own account, which I thought was pretty funny.
So get your own API keys.
Obviously, look at that, all these people doing that.
I'm still well within my limits on here,
which is pretty funny.
So let's get into doing that.
Now, images in Next.js, we could just make a field
on our product called image
and allow someone to upload it
but better yet what we're gonna do
is we're gonna create an entirely new data type
called ProductImage and then we're gonna have a relationship
of that ProductImage
with the actual product
and what that will allow us to do,
any time in the future,
if you wanna associate multiple products
with a single image
or if you wanna make a gallery
and you wanna browser images.
The sky's the limit
when you make something its own data type,
which is pretty cool.
So we're gonna go into our .env file.
And we've gotta fill these out right here.
So first one, wesbostutorial.
Again, get your own API key right there
and I'm going to take my API key and put it in there.
You can see it there.
I probably should change it after I deploy this course.
One thing I'm wondering is is that dash gonna trip us up?
You can always put quotes
around your strings in your .env file
if you're wondering about that and I'm gonna do
that just so I don't run into some stupid issue
or I've gotta reboot the server 'cause it broke.
Okay, next, we're gonna go into our schemas
and make a new file
and we'll call that capital P,
ProductImage, capital I, .ts.
And just like before,
we are going to make our ProductImage.
So export const ProductImage
is equal to, so again, it's a list,
just like every data type that we have.
We'll have to import the list.
That worked, good.
Then inside of that, we have our fields.
We have our image
and that is going to be a Cloudinary image.
So we'll say cloudinaryImage.
And inside of that,
we are going to pass it our cloudinary config.
Let's just call that cloudinary for now
and then label is going to be Source.
Besides that, we also wanna pass a spot
to pass altText, which is just a text field.
Okay, so we have a couple things
that we need to be imported and created here.
First, let's start with the easy stuff, text.
Let's auto import that.
Okay.
And now cloudinaryImage.
I'm gonna import that from,
it's gonna be from keystone-next/cloudinary.
That's the one.
And then this one, oh, I've gotta spell it right.
Cloudinary.
We've gotta create the config for that.
So up here, we'll say export const cloudinary
is equal to that.
What's wrong with my highlighting here?
What did I break?
Oh, we forgot the from here.
There we go.
Inside of that, we say cloudName
is going to be process.env.cloudinary.
Here, let's open our .env file
and just copy, paste them.
CLOUD_NAME, KEY, SECRET.
Let's just boop,
and each of these will have to get a process.env
in front of it
and then it's cloudName.
Its apiKey.
apiSecret and then finally, we have a folder,
which you don't have to specify the folder
and then they'll just get dumped
into your media library
but in my case, I'm going to say it's called sickfits
and that is our Cloudinary config
and that gets passed to this cloudinaryImage right here.
Now we can inject that into our keystone.ts file.
So we'll go down here, Product,
it's not a ProductImage, boom.
Let's double check that imported.
It did.
And we should be able to now just kill this and restart it.
And see that we can make data by ourselves.
All right, we got a bit of an error.
CloudinaryAdapter required a cloudName,
apiKey, and apiSecret.
Ah, I ran into this once.
It drove me crazy.
So I am passing these right now
and the reason that it's not working
is because it's an environmental variable.
And if you wanted to figure out if that was working,
you could just console.log that
and then usually I do something obnoxious around it,
like log something like that.
And then start it again.
And you'll see it's undefined.
Okay, and I was like what is going on?
And it was because it did not import that .env.
Remember we did this?
Import.env/config.
Apparently you've gotta do that on every single file
where you wanna access environmental variables.
Watch, now if we start it again,
we get wesbostutorial, which is the value
that we have in our environmental variable.
So let's get rid of that console.log in our ProductImage.
And then we'll take a look at our backend here.
If we refresh, you see we have Product Images.
Now let's try go and create a product.
I wanna upload an image.
We'll give it a black hole.
Create product image.
Boom, we've uploaded it
and now I believe if we go to our Cloudinary dashboard here,
we should see it.
There we go, that's one I just uploaded
a couple seconds ago.
All right, so that's the first bit
but the second bit,
and then we're gonna cover that in the next video,
is how do we carry a relationship between the product
and the actual product image?
So I'll see you in that.